```
{:published false}
```
# Set up a clojure project for development with only docker

## Where does it happen
Everything is stored in `~/projects`. Within that are `archived` projects I don't care about, `test` projects that are used to figure stuff out, any active projects (none shown), and `project-init` were our journey begins.
```
projects
├── archived
├── project-init
└── test

```

## Inside project-init/
Right now this folder has one file: `lein-initer.dockerfile`. It is small and looks like this:
```
FROM clojure
COPY . /usr/app
WORKDIR /usr/app
```
The [docker-hub clojure image](https://hub.docker.com/_/clojure/) contains [leiningen](https://leiningen.org/) project manager, which is what I need to generate a new clojure project. The `COPY` command copies over our current context `.` which can also be refereed to as `~projects/project-init/` to `usr/app` in the container. The path `/usr/app` will be the final location of the development envrionment project within the container. `WORKDIR` sets the working directory for the compiled image, effectively where commands will be run when the container is initialized. 

## Make a project
### Repeatable for each project
To make a new project:  

- Navigate to `~/projects/project-init`
```
cd ~/projects/project-init
```

- Build the container (if it hasn't been built yet)
```
docker build -t lein-init-project -f lein-initer.dockerfile .
```
`-t` is used to name the new image locally. `-f` is for using a dockerfile on the filesystem. `.` specifices the context for this command to run in.

- Run the container
```
docker run -ti -v $HOME/projects/project-init:/usr/app lein-init-project
```
`-ti` runs the container in interactive mode. `-v` mounts a folume between the `project-init/` directory and `/usr/app` on the container, this is the sync the two locations. This way when we generate a project from a lein template, in the container, it will be synced back to the host.

### Specific project example
*The next few commands are for generating a specific project. Replace specific project and directory names for each project initialized with this method.  
After running the container the prompt should change on the CLI to show that the shell is on the container. Generate a project using the container:  

- Use lein to generate a project.
```
lein new luminus time-align +aleph +postgres +graphql +re-frame +auth +oauth +cider
```
[Luminus](http://www.luminusweb.net/) is a popular web-app template.
The [+flags](https://github.com/luminus-framework/luminus-template#usage) are for luminus specific options.

- Stop the container
```
exit
```

- Change the ownership and group of the generated project
```
sudo chown -R justin time-align/ && \
sudo chgrp -R justin time-align/
```

- Move the project to the active space
```
mv time-align ../time-align
```
